# Google Summer of Code 2013

## Instructions

Use the Google Summer of Code [Wiki](http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/) and
[FAQs](http://www.google-melange.com/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2013/help_page) for
information about the project.

### Programming languages

Most MATE applications are written in C. We have also few applications and
applets written in Python. Almost all applications have Python bindings
generated with [GObject introspection](https://live.gnome.org/GObjectIntrospection).

### Getting started

Read the [Contribute](./contribute) page to learn how to get
started with MATE Desktop development.

### Contact MATE developers

If you have questions or suggestions, you could contact MATE developers
through IRC or our mailing list.

**IRC :** Join #mate channel on irc.freenode.net.

**Mailing list:** MATE development mailing list web interface is located at
<http://ml.mate-desktop.org/listinfo/mate-dev>.

## Ideas

This section lists some ideas for MATE Desktop GSoC projects that students can
apply for.

**Mentors:**

  * Stefano Karapetsas (stefano-k on irc)

  * Steve Zesch (Amanas on irc)

### Window snapping in Marco

**Brief explanation:** This features aims to implement window snapping in
Marco (our window manager), like the latest generation window managers
(compiz, muffin, etc). With window snapping you can stick the edges of windows
and screen to each other with some degree of force. You can move a window to
another window or screen edge and it will attract and stick until you have
moved it far enough. A basic similar functionality is already avaiable on
Marco, holding the Shift button.

**Knowledge prerequisites:** C.

**Difficulty level:** Easy.

### ePub format support in Atril

**Brief explanation:** Atril is the MATE document viewer and already has
support for a variety of document formats: PostScript (PS), Encapsulated
PostScript (EPS), DJVU, DVI, Portable Document Format ( PDF) and Open XML
Paper Specification (XPS). We would like to add support to open also
[EPUB](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EPUB)
files. EPUB is a short for “electronic publication”, it is a free and open
e-book standard by the International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF).

**Knowledge prerequisite:** C.

**Difficulty level:** Medium.

### GStreamer-1.0 support

**Brief explanation:** [GStreamer](http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/) is a multimedia framework. MATE currently
supports GStreamer 0.10, but this version now is no longer maintained.
GStreamer 1.0 includes a lot of improvements and new features, but it is not
API or ABI compatible with the 0.10. We would like to add support for this new
version of GStreamer.

**Knowledge prerequisites:** C (GStreamer framework a plus).

**Difficulty level:** Medium.

### GTK3 support

**Brief explanation:** GTK+ (GIMP Toolkit) is the cross-platform widget
toolkit used in MATE to create graphical user interfaces. GTK3, released in
2011, brings a lot of improvements. Add GTK3 support to MATE, keeping the
traditional [desktop metaphor](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desktop_metaphor), is one of the goals of the
MATE Desktop project.

**Knowledge prerequisite:** C, [GTK](https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/).

**Difficulty level:** Medium.

### Wayland support

**Brief explanation:** [Wayland](http://wayland.freedesktop.org/) is a next generation display server
protocol with the aim to replace the old X server. With Wayland, the window
managers will become display servers and compositors at same time, using the
Wayland library.

**Knowledge prerequisite:** C.

**Difficulty level:** Hard.

### Plugin system in Caja

**Brief explanation:** Caja, our file manager, has a nice library to allow
developers to create extensions. But these extensions are loaded during Caja
start, and there is no possibility to enable/disable them at runtime. Add a
way to enable and disable Caja extensions is one of the goals of MATE Desktop
roadmap.

**Knowledge prerequisite:** C (GLib and GTK a plus).

**Difficulty level:** Medium.
