# 1.4 - Translations sync with transifex

Base  
---  
mate-common |  \- 1)  
mate-doc-utils |  Done  
mate-corba |  \- 2)  
mate-conf |  Done  
libmatecomponent |  Done  
mate-mime-data |  Done  
mate-vfs |  Done  
libmate |  Done  
libmatecanvas |  Done  
libmatecomponentui |  Done  
libmatekeyring |  Done  
mate-keyring |  Done  
libmateui |  Done  
libmatenotify |  \- 3)  
libmatekbd |  Done  
libmateweather |  Done  
libmatewnck |  Done  
mate-icon-theme |  Done  
mate-dialogs |  Done  
mate-desktop |  Done  
mate-file-manager |  Done  
mate-notification-daemon |  Done  
mate-backgrounds |  Done  
mate-menus |  Done  
mate-window-manager |  Done  
mate-polkit |  Done  
mate-settings-daemon |  Done  
mate-control-center |  Done  
mate-panel |  Done  
mate-session-manager |  Done  
mate-themes |  Done  
Extra  
ffmpegthumbnailer-caja |  \- 4)  
mate-applets |  Done  
mate-bluetooth |  Done  
mate-calc |  Done  
mate-conf-editor |  Done  
mate-document-viewer |  Done  
mate-file-archiver |  Done  
mate-file-manager-gksu |  Done  
mate-file-manager-image-converter |  Done  
mate-file-manager-open-terminal |  Done  
mate-file-manager-sendto |  Done  
mate-image-viewer |  Done  
mate-indicator-applet |  Done  
mate-media |  Done  
mate-menu-editor |  Done  
mate-netbook |  
mate-netspeed |  Done  
mate-power-manager |  Done  
mate-screensaver |  Done  
mate-sensors-applet |  Done  
mate-system-monitor |  Done  
mate-system-tools |  Done  
mate-terminal |  Done  
mate-text-editor |  Done  
mate-user-share |  Done  
mate-utils |  Done  
python-caja |  \- 5)  
python-corba |  \- 6)  
python-mate |  \- 7)  
python-mate-desktop |  \- 8)  
  
1) , 2) , 3) , 4) , 5) , 6) , 7) , 8) no translations

